README.MD, before:

# React Pomodoro

> A simple pomodoro timer, with React

---

![react](pomodoro.jpg)


- Repository: 
	- `challenge-react-pomodoro`
- Type of Challenge: 
	- `Learning Challenge`
- Duration: 
	- `3 days`
- Deadline: 
	- `30/01/20 16:00`
- Team challenge : 
	- `solo`



## Introduction

We will create a [pomodoro timer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) with React. This will be a *static* project, you will just create the front-end in React. 

## What to do

### Setup you environment

Create your React application with the `create-react-app` CLI. 

>People who want to try something new could also use a bundler like [Parcel](https://parceljs.org) to set up your environment. Have a look at [this excelent tutorial](https://scotch.io/tutorials/setting-up-a-react-project-with-parcel) to help you with Parcel.js.


### Functionalities

The *timer* has a default value of **20 minutes**, this value can be changed with **plus (+)** and **minus (-)** buttons. These buttons will change how many minutes the timer will take. This can only be changed when the timer is *stopped*. When the timer is couting down, the (+) and (-) buttons are *inactive*.

The **start** button has to change his state to a **reset** button when the counter is started. 

When the timer reaches its end, display a modal box which tells the user to *take a break*. This modal contains two buttons. One to close the window, and one to start a new timer.


### Notes

- Before you start, create a mockup of you project. 

- Identify all the different components you will have to create. [(think in react!)](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

- Structure you files in an orderly fashion

Commit message:

added readme file and basic if/else function that fires correct function and changes value of button based on state

README.MD, after:

# React-Pomodoro-Timer

## basic idea
- timer that counts down the seconds and displays message on completion. Timer time can be modified and reset.
- BeCode React JavaScript challenge 

## implementation
- used class components (instead of hooks)
- moved state up to re-use already existing reset function at the App level
- numeric counter in state for countdown and ease of use (compared to working with date objects)
- interval and clearInterval of 1000 to have function fire every second
- established 'absolute' zero time as a base to add timer time to in order to calcute and display also hours
- condtionally displayed certain blocks on the basis of parameters set in state
- tried to have clean/readable code

## to do's
- break down things in even smaller components
- styling as always
- close window button maybe (chose not to do it now, due to the fact that I don't want to open the modal box in a new window and even then not all browsers support the window.close function. So no added value by including it)

# ORIGINAL ASSIGNMENT BELOW

# React Pomodoro

> A simple pomodoro timer, with React

---

![react](pomodoro.jpg)


- Repository: 
	- `challenge-react-pomodoro`
- Type of Challenge: 
	- `Learning Challenge`
- Duration: 
	- `3 days`
- Deadline: 
	- `30/01/20 16:00`
- Team challenge : 
	- `solo`



## Introduction

We will create a [pomodoro timer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) with React. This will be a *static* project, you will just create the front-end in React. 

## What to do

### Setup you environment

Create your React application with the `create-react-app` CLI. 

>People who want to try something new could also use a bundler like [Parcel](https://parceljs.org) to set up your environment. Have a look at [this excelent tutorial](https://scotch.io/tutorials/setting-up-a-react-project-with-parcel) to help you with Parcel.js.


### Functionalities

The *timer* has a default value of **20 minutes**, this value can be changed with **plus (+)** and **minus (-)** buttons. These buttons will change how many minutes the timer will take. This can only be changed when the timer is *stopped*. When the timer is couting down, the (+) and (-) buttons are *inactive*.

The **start** button has to change his state to a **reset** button when the counter is started. 

When the timer reaches its end, display a modal box which tells the user to *take a break*. This modal contains two buttons. One to close the window, and one to start a new timer.


### Notes

- Before you start, create a mockup of you project. 

- Identify all the different components you will have to create. [(think in react!)](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

- Structure you files in an orderly fashion
